Hey guys welcome back.
In this video we're going to learn bit all about moving our lives making sure if two or more layers
are supposed to move together they do do.
Unlike this one in the background here he can see how that separate from the rest of the sword whereas
this one is together.
And then finally we'll learn about layer transforms as you can see here.
These swords are a reflection of one another.
It's been flipped around horizontally.
Okay welcome back over into gimp.
The first thing that we want to do here of course is to have an image to work with.
So go ahead create a new image.
Thirty to buy first two is absolutely fine.
Click Okay.
And I'm going to zoom all the way in.
Control shift Jay now that I've zoomed all the way in.
I need something on a layer.
Now we already have one layer which is the background layer.
I'm going to create a new layer and call this a circle.
I'm going to make myself a circle that I can use to demonstrate and I'm going to use the pencil tool
in order to generate a circle on the screen.
Now I'm going to create a new layer.
And call this one a red circle and I'm going to change the other one to black circle.
Again I'm just double clicking there to change the name.
Black circle.
Back onto the red circle.
Making sure it's active.
I'm going to go find myself a red colour.
And there we go.
We've got a red and a black circle and of course I can swap the order of those circles over on the layers
tab and I can also move them as well.
Now the easiest way of moving them is to use the move tool and that is available on the tool box.
It looks like a quadruple headed arrow.
If we hover over it we can see the short key.
If we hover over it we see the shortcut key is M and if we go over to the tools menu it's under the
transformed tools and we have move.
And you can see there are loads of other tools as well that we'll get to in the future with the move
tool selected where we can move the red circle.
If we go ahead and click on the red circle by default we'll be able to move it individually.
And if we click on the black circle without changing layer you should be able to move that as well.
If you can't and it's only the red layer that's moving you may find that under the tool options you've
got move the active player selected rather then pick a layer or guide.
Now if you can see here the tool toggle.
So between these two options and those are pretty much the only options we've got is shift.
So if I hold down Shift you can see that that will toggle between one and the other.
Now why would you want to move the active layer rather than just clicking on the thing you want to move.
Well if you have a more complicated scene than two circles it may be far more difficult to select the
leader you want especially if there is some transparency as well that does make it very difficult to
select layers.
Now one of the other things that I will mention at this point in time is this border that is around
our layer this yellow and black border represents the layer boundary and you can turn those dashes on
and off.
If we go to view and show layer boundary if we disable that that will disappear.
Now sometimes I like it on because I know whether layer is.
And sometimes I'm happy with it turned off.
The reason why it might you might want it on for instance if I go to view and turn that back on now.
So I wanted to colour in some more of this layer for whatever reason.
I'm going to go grab a paint brush tool change a colour ever so slightly suit and see what I'm doing.
Change it to blue.
Notice that there is now a harsh edge.
I can't colorin the bit in the back ground that's beyond the layer boundary.
Now you can have layers to larger than the cameras you're working on but it's something just to bear
in mind that if you do anything that's outside of the layer boundary which usually is the boundary of
the entire canvas.
But here it isn't.
I'll do great example here in the lower corner I can line up a circle sets off the canvas and it looks
like we've got a very sharp hedge here.
If I go ahead and move so I'm going to go back to the move tool click and drag.
This we can see that circle is in fact intact even though it was off the canvas itself.
Finally if we've got something that we really like like this black circle here bring it to the foreground.
Mary GOPe if I wanted to replicate that I couldn't do that under the layer menu under transform and
I can flip that horizontally or vertically.
Now a circle is probably not the best way of demonstrating this because whichever way I flip this or
rotate it is isn't going to work.
So I'm going to delete the layers that I have currently and I'm going to grab myself the pencil tool
turn not the capacity unbeing blind turning the size down to maybe two and I'm going to put a Chevron
on the screen itself roughly lined up with the sensor give or take.
So we've now got something with direction.
Now if I wanted to I could go to layar Transform and flip that horizontally.
Now that Chevron is facing the other direction.
If I wanted to I could just placate the layer we've currently got and then do a flip.
So in this case I'm going to transform and flip horizontally and you're wondering why I can't see the
actual other Chevron.
Where has it gone.
Well what's happened here is I've duplicated the background layer and the background layer has transparency
turned off it's got no alpha channel in order to rectify.
I could do my work again but if you have accidentally put something on the background layer what you
can do is right click on the background.
And if we go down towards the bottom we can see that there is an option to add an alpha channel and
that it will then make it no longer bold.
I can do the same to the other channel as well.
So add a channel of a layer there and then.
Wow.
You still can't see it.
We're going to have to remove the whites.
That's their something we use the magic wand to do that and I'm going to select the white area press
delete and the white hero on the inside and press today and I'm going to do the same for the other background
as well.
And there we go.
We've made ourselves a reflection of the original image using the layer Transform Tool.
Finally you may have spent a couple of minutes aligning these two Chevrons So they're perfect.
If you want them to move together so no matter what else happens they stick together.
You can go up into the layers tab and next to the eye there's another box that is hidden away.
If you click that box you'll see a little chain link appears and that means that layer is linked but
is not linked to any thing at the moment is just linked to itself.
It needs to be linked to the one underneath.
So we clicked that and now if we go ahead and grab the move tool whatever we do it moves both layers
together not independently.
It doesn't matter which one you select.
They will both move and that's true of any layers that are linked together.
If you unlink a layer then it will not move with anything else that's linked.
And of course that allows you to adjust something when you're happy with it in its position.
You can go ahead and link it again and there's one final way of ensuring that these two layers do move
together all the time.
And that is to make them one individual layer.
And what we can do is we can merge the layer above to the layer beneath.
Making it one individual layer we can right click and if you have a look down we see there's an option
to merge down.
You can also do this in the layers menu.
No see merge down is there as well.
Now when it's merged down it basically brings the two layers together.
And if you had many many more.
So let's go ahead and create a couple more layers.
When you merge down as we can see here and then emerge from the top one down.
It only merges one at a time.
You can do the entire image at once.
If you wanted to but it would be very rare that you wanted to flatten absolutely everything so that
you lose all of the benefits that layers have.
However if you were constructing a cross like this in the first place then merging down is a deal.
And of course in the next lecture will be able to hone our skills in the form of a challenge and I will
see you over in that next lecture.